
<h1 class="sectionedit1"><a name="vision_plan" id="vision_plan">Vision &amp; Plan</a></h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
To start a project, we must first have an idea. We can start by brainstorming ideas or selecting from <a href="/polycademy/wiki/doku.php?id=web_application_development:course_examples" class="wikilink2" title="web_application_development:course_examples" rel="nofollow">Course Examples</a>. Once we have the idea, we then expand on the idea&#039;s feature set. These features are turned into a logical workflow of components. Then we can figure out what standards and technologies we will use in order to create it. This will give us an idea of the timing and deployment of the project.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Vision & Plan" [1-444] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2"><a name="brainstorming" id="brainstorming">Brainstorming</a></h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Creative brainstorming relies often relies on three aspects:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Individual reflection on <em>identifying problems</em>.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Inspiration, debate and constructive criticism from <em>different complex fields</em>.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Physical space that allows <em>interaction with diverse people</em>.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Scientific studies have shown that groups don&#039;t necessarily produce more ideas than individuals. While brainstorming sessions in groups were meant to sustain a no criticism rule, group dynamics stifle creative thought and some people are simply uncomfortable in groups. The individual needs to first reflect on problems. There is no point in thinking about solutions or the ideal product or service, if the problem isn&#039;t tackled first. People also find it easier to identify problems than ideal products. However don&#039;t let this stop you about dreaming about ideas that have no specific or defined problem. Henry Ford once said that if he asked what consumers want, they would have said a faster horse.
</p>

<p>
In this course, you may already arrive with a problem and solution set. If you don&#039;t have any specific ideas, this is when getting into groups is the most fun. After a problem has been identified by you or one of your group members, let people react to your the problem and the proposed solution. Constructive criticism is a good thing in creative brainstorming as it allows people to reformulate the problem to take into account complex factors that the original definition did not attend to. Reformulating the problem or solution works best when it is inspired and debated from different perspectives and fields. The Medici effect is the phenomenon that breakthrough insights comes from an intersection of ideas, concepts and cultures. Allow the group to connect the dots between disparate fields. Remember too little familiarity between group members stifles interaction, but too much familiarity increases group think. 
</p>

<p>
The third points follows on from the second point. Get out there and talk to people you would normally never talk too! Innovative companies such as Vitra are designing workplaces that enhance serendipitous conversations by removing the cubicles and creating a balance between relaxed solitude and easy going sociability. Diverse people bring diverse backgrounds and cultures. In the modern day, there has been a greater focus on convergence and cross-disciplinary studies as modern complex problems are finding parallels in diverse academic fields.
</p>

<p>
Brainstorming doesn&#039;t stop after the problem has been defined and appropriate solution proposed. There is a cycle of brainstorming as the development of the solution meets unexpected threats and opportunities. So don&#039;t be afraid of going back to the drawing board, but make sure to keep in sight a constant theme and that is your vision.
</p>

<p>
Some tips for the brainstorming cycle:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Do use the internet, there is a wealth of information. In the realm of web development, check out websites like FastCompany, NetTuts, Smashing Magazine, UXMag, Kickstarter, Youtube, Lifehacker, Internet Forums (stackoverflow)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Take an existing problem or maybe an existing solution and improve it. This could be in the packaging, usability, marketing, deployment, licensing, obscurity, complexity or distribution.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Use mindmaps to keep track of how your idea progresses. Check out xmind.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Different market segments will have different problems, but sometimes they will have the same. Think about taking a problem solution set from one market context to another. This could be geographical or abstract.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Check out the patent literature. This is free.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Think about using open source developments for inspiration. Sometimes it&#039;s as easy as taking a corporate solution and turning it open source.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Attach yourself onto an existing product or service. Examples include plugins for internet browsers, plugins for various software, utilising APIs of existing web services.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Think foreign languages, Facebook is big in the Western World, but what about China?</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Brainstorming" [445-4477] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3"><a name="feature_set" id="feature_set">Feature Set</a></h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Once you have a problem and solution defined. It is time to turn that into a feature set of the final product or service. The concept of <a href="/polycademy/wiki/doku.php?id=web_application_development:minimum_viable_product" class="wikilink2" title="web_application_development:minimum_viable_product" rel="nofollow">Minimum Viable Product</a> becomes important. This means to develop your product to have only features that allow it to be deployed and no more. This doesn&#039;t mean to deploy a minimum product, but a product that is viable to be used with satisfaction to its primary purpose, while having minimum features and hence minimum effort and expenses. How to do this? 
</p>

<p>
First is to define the core features, the value adding, the optional, the extraneous. There&#039;s lots of cool features we would want in our ideal solution, but we have limited time and budget.
</p>

<p>
The second part of the MVP is the the smoke test of the whole product or a set of features. The MVP deploys a website or mock up of the service or function but has no real functionality, this is so that clicks and interactions can be measured and compared. The MVP tests the concept on customers before actually creating the product. Since this course is about actually building the solution, we have limited time, so this part of the MVP we will not do. However your group is free to do that in your own time.
</p>

<p>
This has a good explanation about what is a minimum viable product. <a href="http://radoff.com/blog/2010/05/04/minimum-viable-product-rant/" class="urlextern" title="http://radoff.com/blog/2010/05/04/minimum-viable-product-rant/"  rel="nofollow">http://radoff.com/blog/2010/05/04/minimum-viable-product-rant/</a>
</p>

<p>
Separate what is core to what is value adding to what is optional to what is extraneous. 
What is extraneous now can eventually become optional, then value adding, then finally core in the future.
You can think of the feature set by time:
Core is what&#039;s needed now to even function.
Value adding is what&#039;s nice to have in the future.
Optional is to cater to extreme use cases.
Extraneous is neither realistic nor needed under time and capability constraints.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Feature Set" [4478-6299] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4"><a name="components" id="components">Components</a></h2>
<div class="level2">

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Components" [6300-6323] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5"><a name="standards_technologies" id="standards_technologies">Standards &amp; Technologies</a></h2>
<div class="level2">

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Standards & Technologies" [6324-6361] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6"><a name="timing_deployment" id="timing_deployment">Timing &amp; Deployment</a></h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
How long is everything going to take.
What are the milestones?
When releasing the alpha
When are we releasing the beta.
When releasing the 1.0?
What will be the future releases.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Timing & Deployment" [6362-] -->